Being but partly grown his jaws had not yet become large enough nor
strong enough to make his throat-attack deadly; but many a young
dog went around camp with a lacerated throat in token of White
Fang's intention.  And one day, catching one of his enemies alone
on the edge of the woods, he managed, by repeatedly overthrowing
him and attacking the throat, to cut the great vein and let out the
life.  There was a great row that night.  He had been observed, the
news had been carried to the dead dog's master, the squaws
remembered all the instances of stolen meat, and Grey Beaver was
beset by many angry voices.  But he resolutely held the door of his
tepee, inside which he had placed the culprit, and refused to
permit the vengeance for which his tribespeople clamoured.
White Fang became hated by man and dog.  During this period of his
development he never knew a moment's security.  The tooth of every
dog was against him, the hand of every man.  He was greeted with
snarls by his kind, with curses and stones by his gods.  He lived
tensely.  He was always keyed up, alert for attack, wary of being
attacked, with an eye for sudden and unexpected missiles, prepared
to act precipitately and coolly, to leap in with a flash of teeth,
or to leap away with a menacing snarl.
As for snarling he could snarl more terribly than any dog, young or
old, in camp.  The intent of the snarl is to warn or frighten, and
judgment is required to know when it should be used.  White Fang
knew how to make it and when to make it.  Into his snarl he
incorporated all that was vicious, malignant, and horrible.  With
nose serrulated by continuous spasms, hair bristling in recurrent
waves, tongue whipping out like a red snake and whipping back
again, ears flattened down, eyes gleaming hatred, lips wrinkled
back, and fangs exposed and dripping, he could compel a pause on
the part of almost any assailant.  A temporary pause, when taken
off his guard, gave him the vital moment in which to think and
determine his action.  But often a pause so gained lengthened out
until it evolved into a complete cessation from the attack.  And
before more than one of the grown dogs White Fang's snarl enabled
him to beat an honourable retreat.
An outcast himself from the pack of the part-grown dogs, his
sanguinary methods and remarkable efficiency made the pack pay for
its persecution of him.  Not permitted himself to run with the
pack, the curious state of affairs obtained that no member of the
pack could run outside the pack.  White Fang would not permit it.
What of his bushwhacking and waylaying tactics, the young dogs were
afraid to run by themselves.  With the exception of Lip-lip, they
were compelled to hunch together for mutual protection against the
terrible enemy they had made.  A puppy alone by the river bank
meant a puppy dead or a puppy that aroused the camp with its shrill
pain and terror as it fled back from the wolf-cub that had waylaid
it.